#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\rfoot{Andy Pack / 6420013}
\lfoot{January 2020}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
minimalistic
todonotes
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command biber
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\pdf_title "Holoportation"
\pdf_author "Andy Pack"
\pdf_subject "The use of Kinect cameras to stream 3D video from client to server"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine biblatex
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\biblatex_bibstyle ieee
\biblatex_citestyle ieee
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\bullet 1 0 9 -1
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Multi-Source Holoportation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Andy Pack / 6420013
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout List of TODOs

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aim of this project is to develop a piece of software capable of supporting
 multi-source holoportation (hologram teleportation) using the 
\emph on
\noun on
LiveScan3D
\emph default
\noun default

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "livescan3d"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 suite of software as a base.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the spaces of augmented and virtual reality become commonplace and mature,
 the ability to capture and stream 3D renderings of objects and people over
 the internet using consumer-grade hardware has many possible applications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\noun on
LiveScan3D
\noun default
 suite uses 
\noun on
Xbox Kinect
\noun default
 cameras to capture and stream 3D renders of objects from one or many angles
 simultaneously however the destination server is only able to process and
 reconstruct one object or surroundings at a time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The capability to concurrently receive and reconstruct streams of different
 objects further broadens the landscape of possible applications, analogous
 to the movement from 1-to-1 phone calls to conference calling.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Literature Review
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Holoportation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Augmented and Virtual Reality
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Kinect
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
LiveScan3D
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\noun on
LiveScan3D
\noun default
 is a suite of software developed by Marek Kowalski, Jacek Naruniec and
 Michal Daniluk of the Warsaw University of Technology in 2015
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "livescan3d"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
 The suite utilises the 
\noun on
Xbox Kinect
\noun default
 camera to record and transmit 3D renders over an IP network.
 A server which can manage multiple clients processes, reconstructs and
 displays the renderings in real-time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
LiveScan Client
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
LiveScan Server
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The server component of the 
\noun on
LiveScan
\noun default
 suite is responsible for managing and receiving 3D renders from connected
 clients.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Multi-View Configurations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Current Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As of January 2020 the method for displaying renderings, the server's 
\noun on
OpenGL
\noun default
 window, has been modified such that it can construct and render point clouds
 from multiple sources.
 In doing so a sub-system of geometric transformations has been included
 such that the renders of individual sources are arranged coherently within
 the space when reconstructed.
 Work has begun on separating much of the network functionality from the
 
\noun on
KinectServer
\noun default
 class such as frame retrieval in order to allow this to be done on a source-by-
source basis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Geometric Transformations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Within the 
\noun on
LiveScan3D
\noun default
 server source code are utility structures and classes which made developing
 a wider geometric manipulation system easier.
 Structures defining points in both 3D and 2D space called 
\noun on
Point3f
\noun default
 and 
\noun on
Point2f
\noun default
 respectively are used in drawing skeletons.
 There is also a class defining an affine transformation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An affine transformation is a family of geometric transformations that preserve
 parallel lines within geometric spaces.
 Some examples of affine transformations include scaling, reflection, rotation,
 translation and shearing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The class definition is made up of a three-by-three transformation matrix
 and single 3D vector for translation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The class is used for both camera poses and world transformations.
 A camera pose is the affine transformation defining the position and orientatio
n of the 
\noun on
Kinect
\noun default
 camera when drawn in the 
\noun on
OpenGL
\noun default
 space.
 The world transformations are used when using multiple sensors simultaneously.
 When completing the calibration process, the origin of the 
\noun on
OpenGL
\noun default
 space shifts from being the position of the single 
\noun on
Kinect
\noun default
 sensor to being the calibration markers that each camera now orbits.
 The server, however, still receives renders from each sensor defined by
 their own Euclidean space and as such the server must transform each view
 into a composite one.
 The world transforms define the transformations for each sensor that correctly
 construct a calibrated 3D render.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When considering how each source's render would be arranged in the space
 the use of this class definition of affine transformations was extended.
 As the use of the class is fairly limited within the base source code,
 some utility classes and functions were required in order to fully maximise
 their effectiveness.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\noun on
Transformer
\noun default
 class has static methods to apply 
\noun on
AffineTransform
\noun default
s to both 
\noun on
Point3f
\noun default
 structures and raw vertices when received from 
\noun on
LiveScan
\noun default
 clients.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It also has static methods to generate affine transformations for rotations
 in each axis given an arbitrary angle.
 This provided a foundation on which to define how the 
\noun on
OpenGL
\noun default
 space would arrange separate sources within it's combined co-ordinate space.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Separation of Network and Display
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\start_of_appendix
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintCited"
bibfiles "references"
options "bibtotoc"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
